All right, good afternoon, everyone,
and welcome to the Address
Book Server session.
So this is a new product
that we introduced yesterday.
Oops, I don't have my slide yet.
There I am.
I'm Juussi Mantere.
I'm the engineering manager
for Address Book Server,
and this is our agenda today.
So we are introducing a new
component in Mac OS X Server,
which will ship as part of Snow Leopard,
and that is Address Book.
So we have all these
collaboration applications.
So we have mail, we have calendar,
we have chat, we have Address Book.
So these are all the client applications.
And, of course, on Mac OS X Server,
we have corresponding server pieces.
So we have server for mail,
we have server for calendaring,
we have a server for chat,
and there is something missing.
Like, what's wrong with this picture?
And to get us where we need to be,
we are introducing the
Address Book Server.
So the fourth leg in our server
component to support Address Book sharing
and server-stored Address Books.
When we were developing
the Address Book Server,
we looked at the various options
on how to actually create a
system to store your contacts in.
And we looked at LDAP,
so Lightweight Directory Access.
Yeah, that's probably good for accounts,
but accounts are not contacts.
And directories are rarely writable,
so you don't necessarily have
write access to the directory.
And adding attributes or
elements into your directory,
like if you want to store a field
that's not supported by the LDAP schema,
that would be challenging to get your
directory administrators to add schema
elements is usually an uphill battle.
And lightweight, yeah.
I think hippopotamus is lightweight
compared to an elephant.
Like LDAP is lightweight
compared to X500.
Still lightweight if you
want to do open directory,
open active directory.
If you want to do open directory,
e-directer compatibility,
the lightweight kind of goes out
the window and it really becomes
a heavy framework to deal with.
And other choices, so let's see OpenID.
So new emerging standards,
open authentication.
Well, the name pretty much says it all.
Authentication, that's identity and
logging in credentials.
It's not really contacts.
Other things, Google.
So Google just announced some
months ago their contacts data API.
The problem with that
is it is proprietary.
So if you're willing to
trust the Google Cloud,
great, good for you.
But doesn't necessarily do much for
interoperability or ability to take
your contacts out of that back end
and put them into another back end.
Ditto for Yahoo.
So Yahoo just introduced an
address book API as well.
Suffers pretty much the same
issue as Google where it is
proprietary to that one vendor.
So.
[Transcript missing]
So we already have some experience
developing dev-based services.
So if you look at how the calendar
client talks to the calendar
server on Mac OS X Server,
it's using CalDAV,
which is another recognized protocol.
There's an RFC for that.
And it's leveraging web dev and
using the iCalendar data format.
And we have a client server service.
And to do CardDAV,
this pretty much fits the same model.
So we have, again, the dev foundation.
And instead of doing a
payload for calendaring,
we have a payload for contacts.
And out of that comes CardDAV.
So this pretty much follows the
methodologies we've already set in
place for other services that we offer.
So we're leveraging all the backend
work that we already have in place when
we implemented the calendar server.
So we can reuse pretty much our
expertise in developing this solution.
So, Address Book Server,
new in Snow Leopard.
So, what do we get with this?
This is a server for your contacts.
Any contact, be it public, private,
allows you to share contacts,
allows you to search on the server,
and the solution is standards-based,
which means that other clients that will
come out there or other servers that will
implement CardDAV will all interoperate,
just like you have
interoperability with CalDAV,
or let's say, web,
which is kind of interoperable
from client server.
Or mail clients talking to mail servers.
So, this is probably the right
choice for the long term.
How do you use the server?
On the client side, we use Address Book.
The Address Book Server on
Mac OS X Server can be directly used
from Address Book on Mac OS X Client.
Instead of having all your
contacts stored locally,
we now have an option to point
the Address Book Client to an
Address Book Server and gather
your contacts from there.
And of course,
just like with Mail and iCal and iChat,
you can have multiple accounts that
are offered through the Address Book.
So you can have one server that is
your primary Address Book Server,
and you can have other servers that
you can connect to to store other
contacts that you don't necessarily
want to store on your primary server.
And this behaves as you'd expect.
So it's just like using Address
Book with local contacts except now
everything's stored on the server.
So editing works, creating groups,
creating shared groups,
and you can access the contacts
you have from any client,
be it from a system at home,
be it a system at the office,
or a mobile device that
will support CardDAV.
And like any account,
it's just another account
and you can have multiple
accounts inside Address Book.
and application support.
So out of the box,
any application that uses the standard
Address Book interfaces to match,
let's say, autocomplete for you,
Mail does that because it's
already hooked up into Address
Book calendar and chat as well.
So you get application support for free.
So any contacts that you store on the
Address Book Server will become all
immediately available on the clients
when they just support the Address
Book APIs to navigate your contacts.
And when will we ship this?
So this will be part of
Mac OS X Snow Leopard.
So we don't have a version of the server
in the current seed build that you have.
So if you're not an ADC member
who has access to the seed builds,
please sign up and get your status
in such a state that you can
receive future Snow Leopard builds
because we will be seeding builds
of Snow Leopard with Address
Book Server built in in the future,
but it's not in the current build that
you received at the developer conference.
So up your membership
if you need to do so.
Open source.
Just like with the calendar server,
we will release Address
Book Server under Mac OS Forge.
So this will be under the Darwin license.
And we will have this just
like you can have the current
calendar server implementation.
It will be available on the site
we have for Address Book Server,
which will be addressbookserver.org.
The site isn't up there yet,
but once we have
something to show for you,
it will be there.
And with that,
let's talk a little bit more about
CardDAV and let me introduce Bruce Gaya,
who is the lead engineer
for the Address Book Server.
Bruce.
That was so good.
Good job.
Okay, we're going to talk about CardDAV.
So CardDAV,
it's actually a very thin layer
on top of WebDAV and vCard.
I have a picture here of WebDAV.
When I mean WebDAV,
it's a modern WebDAV server
which has ACLs.
Of course, WebDAV uses XML.
It's on top of HTTP.
So we get this thin layer on top of that,
and that's CardDAV.
And one of the things it does,
it defines Address Books as
collections of vCards.
WebDAV collections.
And they can only contain vCards,
nothing else.
There's a data model,
which we'll get into a little
bit more in a later talk,
which we're going to describe
where the address books will be
found and what the URLs will be.
and the other thing
CardDAV does is support reports.
And reports mean queries.
So it means it defines how you
can query Address Book Server and
get various vCards back.
Okay, this is the full name of CardDAV.
Vcard Extensions to WebDAV,
and this is the name of the
current internet's draft.
It's an IETF draft on
the standards track.
You can look it up, read it yourself,
and it depends on these things.
And what I mean depends here,
if you read RFCs,
these are the things which
a valid CardDAV server
must implement to be valid.
First of all, Vcards, WebDAV Class 3,
that's a modern WebDAV server,
and for those of you,
what really WebDAV is, it's an internet,
I would call it an internet
or HTTP-friendly file service.
WebDAV Access Control Lists.
This is going to allow our Address
Book Server to have various access
controls on various address books.
So we can have public address books,
private address books,
shared address books using the ACLs.
SSL, TLS, this will give us stream
encryption so you can access your
Address Book Server securely.
And ETags and WebDAV versioning.
ETags are like change IDs and
that with versioning will allow
our Address Book clients or your
Address Book clients to cache vCards
locally from the server and when
you get offline you can use them,
make changes.
When you get back to the network you'll
be able to upload those changes and
see what has changed on the server.
The Make Collection Extension,
this is one of those things in the
RFC that you should implement and our
Address Book Server will implement this.
It's simply a method so that you can
create an address book on the server and
that's the name of the internet draft.
Okay, let's talk about vCards.
Ubiquitous,
it is a ubiquitous standard for
storing contact information.
So let's see how ubiquitous this is.
So would you raise your
hand if you've used vCards?
Okay, look at that.
Is there anybody whose hand didn't go up?
There's no one.
Okay,
so that's why I say it's ubiquitous.
We're all using this.
It's been around since 1995.
Versit cards.
Juussi gave some of the history of that.
Essentially, when you look at it,
it's a key value property list.
If you look at this example I have here,
there's various properties such as FN,
that stands for full name,
N stands for name, there's email,
telephone, various other things.
And the RFC defines how
those things are stored,
what those property names are.
In CardDAV, in address book collections,
each vCard must have a unique ID,
In the vCard standard,
one unique ID is supposed to be
associated with a real object,
like a real user should have the
same UID in all of his vCards.
And in our Address Book Server,
there'll be multiple address books.
So essentially, you can have the same
vCard in many places.
The vCard standard properties,
non-standard properties start with
X and that will allow us to be forward
compatible with a new standard which
is coming along which is vCard v4.0.
I should have said
CardDAV supports vCard 3.0.
It has some limitations.
There are some new things coming in 4.0,
and here is the name of the
IETF draft if you want to look
at what's coming in vCard 4.0.
Okay,
let's look at the CardDAV data model.
Okay, this is the whole thing.
Two main things I'm going to go in here,
principles and address books.
So let's take a quick look at principles.
So what are principles?
Well, the users and groups-- and I have a
picture here which shows three users.
The Address Book Server is going to get
these users from a directory service.
And in our Address
Book Server implementation,
we're going to be using the
OS X Directory Services API.
And if you're familiar with that API,
it has a back-end plug-in architecture
such that through that API,
we can access all sorts of address books.
We can access open directory-- excuse me,
I should say we can access all
sorts of directory services.
We can access open directory.
We can access access directory, LDAP,
Apache.
Or you can have an XML file
which defines users and groups.
Groups are the same thing-- excuse me,
another form of principles.
A group essentially contains users.
Now what does a principle mean?
A principle is someone who can
live-- is an object which can be in
the access control list of WebDAV.
And also, when you authenticate,
you authenticate as a principle.
So you can authenticate to an
Address Book Server as a principle,
let's say, the user.
So let's now look at a address book
with the address book arm of this graph.
So, in our Address Book Server,
we're going to have a
collection called Users,
and in that users collection
will be various users.
I have a home icon there,
and that's just a collection
point for the users,
because a user can have
multiple address books.
If you look at the user Bruce here,
there's three address books.
One's called Address Book,
because that happens to be the name we're
using in our current implementation.
Another one called Public,
and there can be more address books.
And in each of those address
books will be various vCards,
and each of the vCards
will have a unique URL.
OK, now,
I said that the address book is-- OK,
let's get this right.
So we've got CardDAV.
CardDAV is based on WebDAV, WebDAV ACL.
That means that each of these address
books can have various access controls.
So in our address book server,
how we plan to do this is a user's
primary address book will be
readable and writable to that user.
But other people will not be able
to see cards in that address book.
But we have another address book here
belonging to the user called Public.
And that address book,
the user will be able to read
and write and make changes in,
add and delete vCards.
But other people will have
read-only access to that.
So this will allow the user to have his
own private address book on the server
and then have a public address book
which others can see so he can publish
contact information to everyone else.
So now let's look at groups.
So I have three groups here, engineering,
management, and staff.
In our Address Book Server,
each of these groups are principals,
and each of these can have associated
with a number of address books.
I have here an address
book called Lunch Club,
and I have one vCard in
that-- or three vCards.
The first one's called Beatrice.
And they each have a unique URL.
So because we can assign access control
list to all of our address books,
what we're going to do is have it so
that everyone in the group can read
and write to these address books.
There's no one person who owns it.
Everyone in the group owns it equally.
And then, as our implementation goes on,
we'll have to make decisions about this.
But we have the opportunity to
have different access controls
on each of these address
books or group address books.
And so that will allow us to have shared
address books shared across the group.
We can decide later-- we haven't
decided yet-- whether the whole world
will have read-only access or whether
it will be private to the group.
But we are going to do that.
We're going to make those decisions
and hopefully do a good job in our
address book server implementation.
So let's look at the
data model in full once.
and let's talk about CalDAV reports.
The other thing
CalDAV defines as reports,
reports are queries.
They're two queries.
Address Book Query,
that returns vCards that
match a given filter.
So you can have a query which says,
"Show me all the vCards in a particular
address book that have the nickname,
let's say, 'me,'" and it will return
you all the address books.
Excuse me,
all the vCards that match that filter.
You can also specify which vCard
properties you can return and use that
to save data traffic to the server.
There's another call, a companion called
Address Book Multi-Git.
It returns a set of vCards by a DAV href.
It also only returns the
specified properties.
And unlike the Address Book Query,
you can target this at the
entire address book collection.
So if you're writing your own client,
you could kind of use it this way.
So someone could type something
in an address book query,
an address book search,
and the server would come
around and return all of the
vCards which match that query.
Now, when you're making that query,
if I was doing this,
I would only get the properties out of
the vCards that really matter to the HI.
I wouldn't get all the properties.
But then later,
if the user selects a few of
those address books and drags them
to his server-based directory,
you now need to do a copy.
So you could turn around and make
the address multi-git using the
information returned in the first call.
And in this call,
you can get all the properties back.
So this is kind of a data-saving
technique using these two calls.
I'm going to do a quick example.
This is an address book query example.
One thing I'd like you
to note is that's it.
So it's very simple.
That's the whole query.
If we look at the filter,
there's the filter.
This filter says,
"Find the nickname properties
which match the string me,
M-E." And right above it,
that's where you get to decide what
properties you're going to get back.
In this case, just five properties.
So I make that call on the request,
and I get a response.
And if there's only
one vCard that matches,
here's the response.
That's all of it.
See how simple that is?
And just by looking at it,
you can find the vCard
information right there.
So I want to have a word about
the Address Book implementation.
Since we're in the same company,
there's another server out there and it's
called Calendar Server and it has a fully
compliant WebDAV implementation already.
So we are going to use that
WebDAV implementation and then
we're adding CardDAV elements on
top of that to make our own server.
So the whole thing is coded in
Python using the Twisted Framework.
We will make a fully compliant
CardDAV server with all the good
stuff that happens when you have
a fully compliant WebDAV server.
We will be using the directory service,
the open directory APIs to
get our principles,
users and groups.
And of course, when you use that API,
you get to be put back in plug-ins,
which means we can go
to Active Directory,
etc., all those different things, XML,
Apache, whatever you like.
And we will get all the rich
authentication and authorization
services that is associated with OWA.
OS X Leopard server.
So I have some reference material.
If you want to find more information,
this is the first one is where we're
going to be posting our sources.
And if you want more information
of Twisted and Python,
get those.
Or you can Google them.
And here is another slide which
gives the exact link of all the
RFCs which I've talked about
during my portion of this talk.
I'll leave it up there just a minute.
And then we're going to have
Juussi come and give us a demo.
All right, thank you, Bruce.
So if you can go to the demo system.
So this will be demo three, please.
Before we do this,
could have a show of hands up.
So you all came here to hear
about the Address Book Server.
So could have a show of hands of how
many of you are interested in the
client side of the Address Book Server?
As in like,
I just want to be a user of that.
Could I have a show of hands, please?
Okay, that's about half the crowd.
What about either, let's say,
server-side implementation?
Like, you're interested in, wow.
Okay, we have more server
people than client people,
so we'll have lots of
CardDAV servers out there.
So this is going to be just a short
demo of the client-side feature.
So this is how Address Book Server is
integrated into the client.
So the way we use Address
Book and CardDAV inside OS X,
and this is a preview version
of Snow Leopard client,
and this is not on your
Snow Leopard DVDs either.
So again, I implore you to get the seeds
once they come out in the later.
And the Address Book integration
will only be on the
Snow Leopard shipping DVDs,
so this will not be open-sourced.
This will be directly integrated
into Address Book itself.
And no open-source components there,
so the client-side components are
still only in the Apple products
and not on Darwin or OS X Forge.
So let's see what we have here.
So this pretty much looks like
the address book as you'd expect.
So there's nothing really new.
I have contacts, I have one company.
I could have multiple companies,
but this time I just
happen to have users here.
And the only real difference between the
regular address book in Mac OS X Leopard
and here is that I really don't have
many contacts on my local system.
So I have a few contacts here,
but only two of them are really local.
Well, three.
That's all I have.
Everything else is stored
on an address book server.
So here I have one address book
server that I have configured for
my primary address book contacts.
And just for the WWDC show,
I have created another configuration,
which is tied into the
WWDC address book server setup.
So here we might have a
different set of users.
So let's say my primary address
book is stored at my company's site
or at my home site or office site.
And this WWDC server could be
more like an ad hoc server.
So something that's set up once
and after the show is done,
then it's turned on.
It's primarily to share contacts
with a work group that you're working
on or working with at this time.
Or it could be a long-term server.
So you could have your ISP, for example,
offer a address book
server in their setup,
just like you have services like Mail and
iChat and web offered to you by your ISP.
Your ISP could also offer
address book services to you.
So that's where we have the two servers.
So, let's see.
If I look at what the
Address Book Server contains,
so I have several address
books that are now shared.
So for the WDC server,
I don't really have any private
contacts that are just my
contacts that I only see.
Most of the contacts that I have
on the WDC server are shared.
So these are shared address books.
Anyone who is a member
of this group can edit,
modify, add, delete members of this group
or the contacts in this group.
So I have one address book
group or shared address book for
our speaker support staff and
one for our presentation team.
So this could be our list of
reviewers of slides or webcasts.
And let's say I wanted to add
-- I know that we're missing a
person from the support staff,
and it's obviously not Steve Jobs.
It might be Xavier.
So I have his V-card information here.
So all I need to do to get him to
add it into the shared address book
on the server is I can just drag it,
drag the V-card into
the shared address book,
and right now it's available for
everyone who is a member of the group.
So the next time the other members
of the team log on to the server or
bring up their address book client,
they'll get the up-to-date information.
And same for me.
If anyone else updates the
contact information on the server,
I will get those updates to
my client as soon as they're,
again, available.
And let's see how the address
book context that I have
are used in an application.
So if I go to the mail application, oops,
did I just kill mail?
No, there is mail.
So in mail,
obviously everybody is used to using
autocomplete to address messages.
So if I autocomplete just
typing a few letters,
these actually translate into
Address Book Server queries.
So these contacts are not stored
in my previous recipient's list.
They're not stored on
my local address book.
These contacts come from the
Address Book Server contacts.
So anything that I see here
is actually server originated.
So that's pretty much the way you'd
expect Mail to work with Address Book,
and Address Book just gets
this functionality for free,
or the clients get the
functionality for free.
And that's mail.
So what if I'm offline?
So the queries go back to the server,
but when you're offline,
actually the contacts that
you have on the server,
they are cached for offline use.
So anything that I had in
my private address books,
anything that I had in
the shared address books,
all those contacts are stored locally.
And if I'm disconnected from the network,
you can still use mail auto-completion
and addressing from the local
cached copy of those addresses.
So you're not stranded
without a network connection.
So if you don't have access to the cloud,
your server is down for whatever reason,
you still have access to
the contacts that you had
previously in your address book.
So you can still use mail auto-completion
and addressing from the local
cached copy of those addresses.
So here, Address Book's actually
populating the server here.
And I know that I should
have a contact for John here.
So let's look for John.
And the only John I have is John White.
But I know there's supposed
to be another John.
And the reason I'm trying
to find this person,
I know I want to carry his
contact information on my local
Address Book so that it will
then be available to me offline.
So if I only have one
John in my Address Book,
then I need to search the Address
Book Server for more contacts.
So here, I can just query.
and I are going to query the
server for other users called John.
And it looks like we have quite a few.
So these contacts are now queried
through the CardDAV protocol
against the Address Book Server.
And this is the view of the search
that you got back from the server.
And these are just vCards.
So anything that I see here,
I can treat it as if it was a vCard.
So obviously I can use drag and drop.
So let's say I'd want to add
John Dewberry into our presentation team.
So all I have to do is take his vCard and
drag him into the shared address book.
And here he is.
So John's contact information was
directly added into the group there.
And again,
any other client that is connected
to the same address book into the
same shared group will get this
updated information as soon as the
clients connect with the server again.
So your contact's
available from anywhere,
accessible offline,
and directly integrated
with all the applications.
and others have done a big
improvement over having your
contacts stored locally without
really disrupting your work behavior.
So anything that you'd expect to
work with addresses still works,
except now you have the cloud
to store your contacts on.
So with that,
let's move on to the slides, please.
and let me introduce Sarris Dabou,
who is the author of Mulberry.
and Sauris is the author of the RFC for
CardDAV and also an Apple engineer.
So, Sauris.
Thank you, Juussi.
Obviously,
one of the biggest goals for adopting
an open standard is interoperability.
We want to be able to have different
clients and different servers
work together to get addressed
contact information between
clients and between servers.
So what we want to show now is
two different clients talking
to the Address Book Server.
So here I am,
and this is the Mulberry client,
and this is set up with an account for
the same WWDC Address Book Server that
Juussi was just showing us.
So if I actually log in here,
it will actually pull up the
My Contact section of that address
book that we were looking at before.
So looking at this address book,
I see that there's no contact
information for me in here,
so I'm going to go ahead
and add an entry for myself.
[Transcript missing]
is going to click OK,
and Mulberry has just written that
contact up to the Address Book Server.
So now I'm going to switch
back to our other machine here,
and I'm going to fire
up Address Book again.
and just give that a second to catch up.
And if we now look at the WWDC account,
we can see that contact is now accessible
by Address Book on the other machine.
So one contact stored
on the CardDAV server,
accessible from different machines,
different clients.
And again, I can go in here and I can
make an edit on this one.
So I'm gonna just change the domain here.
make that change and Address
Book has just gone and written
that back up to the CardDAV Server.
If I switch back to my other machine and
I get Monbre to refresh the Address Book,
you can actually see in here
that we have the new address.
So again, two clients working together.
You can edit on one, edit on the other.
Changes get propagated
back to the server,
stored in that central location.
No need to worry about
synchronization and missing fields,
et cetera.
The protocol,
the client access of the protocol,
allows you to synchronize changes.
You can spot when another
client has made a change,
and you can pull down those
changes and merge them locally.
One of the other things we want to do,
just to emphasize the fact
that this is a HTTP and
WebDAV server underneath CardDAV,
we can go ahead and actually pull up
Safari and point it to the Address
Book Collection that we were just
looking at in each of these two clients.
So this is Safari.
I have it pointed to --
This particular URI here,
which is the actual address book
collection on the WebDAV server.
And there are several vCard files that
are actually stored on the server.
Now I can go and just
download one of these.
And if we have a look at that.
And I can open that up
in TextEdit down here.
And indeed,
that's the vCard that I created
and stored on the server.
And you can just pull that down
using regular HTTP protocol
that get operations through the
web browser to pull that down.
One other thing to note, this is,
you know, it's a WebDAV server,
so at the top we see
the collection listing,
which shows the actual contacts
that are stored in the Address Book.
And below that,
the server is actually exposing
some of the WebDAV properties that
are also stored on this collection.
So you can see the
basics of WebDAV there.
One more thing to, again,
emphasize the fact that it is WebDAV.
Another thing you can do with
a WebDAV server is you can
actually mount it in the finder.
So if I go to connect to server here,
I conveniently have the address
for this server already set up.
So I can click connect
there and give it a second.
And that's just what
we're seeing here is,
you know,
the finder viewing the data that's
actually on the WebDAV server.
This is actually a different
Address Book collection,
which is why you're seeing a
lot more contacts in there.
And one neat thing you can also,
you can obviously do in the finder
is just pull up Cover View and you
can view your contacts in that way.
And that's it for me.
So back to Yussi.
All right.
Thank you, Cyrus.
So that's just proof that we have
these clients to interoperate.
There are other clients out there such
as Malibri that already talk CardDAV.
So it's all up and coming and hopefully
will be in your hands very soon.
So to summarize.
We are introducing the Address
Book Server and will ship
as part of Mac OS X Leopard.
Your address book anywhere.
So this is basically your
address book on the cloud.
Can be any kind of addresses,
either private, public, or shared.
You can create shared address books,
as many as you want,
and have everyone that you're
sharing your contacts with be up
to date and also get updates from
them to the contacts that you
have stored in your address book.
And it is, the Address Book Server is
tightly integrated with the
Mac OS X client for addresses,
Address Book.
So all the applications that you'd expect
to work with contacts and addresses
will work seamlessly with contacts that
you have on the Address Book Server.
So Mail, iChat,
and iCal all work as you'd expect.
And for offline use, we use caching.
So any contacts that you have stored
on the Address Book Server will
be accessible to you even when
you're disconnected from the network
because they are cached locally.
The Address Book Server,
as well as the client pieces of
the Address Book application,
are based on the
Card Dev emerging standard for
vCard sharing over the network.
And as I said,
we'll be part of the Snow Leopard
version of the Mac OS X Server.
And also the server components
will be made available via
Mac OS Forge and under... excuse me,
idrisbookserver.org.
So that's the session.
For more information,
please contact Mark Malone,
who's the evangelist for
internet technologies.
For more information on OS X Server,
please go to the server site.
And there's a lab tomorrow.
So if you'd like to meet
some of the engineering team,
we are at the IT lab tomorrow at 3:30.
And there's also an
Address Book Client Lab.
I believe it's on Friday.
So if you check the lab schedule,
if you want to know more about the
client side functionality for how
to have applications access the
contacts that are in Address Book,
there's a lab for that later this week.